---
layout: post
title:  "In Pursuit of Happiness"
date: 2024-07-18 21:01:00
description: yearly review 
tags: essay, personal 
categories: personal
thumbnail: assets/img/1.jpg
---

If there's something I'm very good at, it is delayed gratification or delayed happiness you can call it. I'm a firm believer that anything worthwhile takes time and so if you really want to be happy, you should be able to wait, to defer it till a later, as the Bible puts it, "till your joy is full". So at every point, something appears like my biggest op (short for opposition). 

Initially, my biggest op was my University, for a school with a high ceiling and the potential to be a lot more, choosing to be mediocre annoyed and frustrated me. I felt handicapped, I felt hoodwinked. While my colleagues abroad are learning how to apply artificial intelligence in drug discovery and, the latest advances in clinical pharmaceutical sciences, I felt forced and coerced into cramming shikimic pathway and writing word for word some things some lecturer dictated out in class (and that's not because I think they some of those things are not important, I just felt emphasis was on the wrong things. BTW I do not think, cramming and writing verbatim is not important for anybody or anything, atleast not in 2024 again). 

Then my biggest op became the pharmacy profession. I felt I needed to do something else for me to be truly happy. Between the constant battle between those who think the whole health sector is under their servitude and so they run the whole sector, to people within the profession that will rather exploit and underpay the young ones, the crazy work schedule and work hours, commitments, etc, it just looks like there’s a way this profession could buy me a Benz in the nearest future except I plan to open my pharmacy, which isn’t something that I'm really interested in per se (BTW, I do not attach any intrinsic value to Benz, it’s just a colloquial way of estimating wealth here in Nigeria).

Later on, my biggest op became Nigeria. See, Nigeria showed me in active terms what it means when they say “talents are global, opportunities are not”. Nigeria, in a pessimist’s words, "is the place dreams come to die". Every day is a fight for survival, a fight for legitimacy and for your right to survive, to exist, to be and to thrive. For some reason, it seems like we just always manage to vote the worst of us into power and as you can imagine, it has been disaster upon disaster. While I love this country to bits and would love to see it work, function and rise to her name, I just feel like I need to first be out of here to truly be happy, and if you were in my shoes, you’d reckon I was making the best choice.

However, in the midst of all that, I'm constantly reminded of the words of NightBirde (the Britain Got Talent star) who despite having just a few months left to live came on to show and shared the powerful quote "You can not wait until life isn't hard anymore before you decide to be happy", one that strikes a cord. The idea that happiness is a destination that needs to be reached, that it's some achievement, some milestone that needs to be ticked, I have come to learn is all an illusion that will always be eluded because human wants and needs are insatiable and at the point in which we achieve and get that thing, we want something else and new. But this is also so because life is an equal balance and mix of good days and bad days. So like the moon, we are not less human or less deserving of happiness on days we feel half-full or empty. 

Thus, similar to the Christian Apostle Paul, I want to say "I know what it is to be in need and I know what it is to have in abundance. I have learnt the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well-fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want" and through it all, I have chosen to be happy. But finally, because I believe happiness is something that can shared. I believe by shining our light strongly, beautifully and unashamed of our scars, we encourage and empower others to do so also, we tell them they can choose to be happy, despite the shitty coins life might be shelling on them today, they deserve to be happy and choose to be happy.

So today, as I celebrate another year around the star in our Milky Way galazy (birthday), I am choosing to chase happiness and to be happy regardless of the circumstance, to seek happiness in the little and mundane things, to linger a bit more on that call with that friend that I have missed, to hold and hug a bit longer the friend I haven't seen in forever, to chat and hang out a bit more with my friends while I can now, to buy those sneakers that I have always wanted, to dance in the rain while listening to my favourite childhood jam, not because happiness is found in things or people, because in the end, all we are left with are these memories and I'll rather fill them with the little sprinkle of happiness that I can find and because that, I believe is one of the best things I can also contribute to the world right, by sharing my joy that isn't defined nor limited by the challenges and trials of this world but one that is evergreen and ethereal, I remind and encourage others to also.